---
layout: post
title:  "LTE-V2X TR36.885 解读"
date:   2016-10-1 13:31:01 +0800
categories: communication
tag: vehicle communication
---

* content
{:toc}




# LTE-V2X

## D2D protocol

Dyanmic scheduling and Semi-persistent scheduling: <http://lteuniversity.com/get_trained/expert_opinion1/b/mmcarthy/archive/2013/12/04/semi-persistent-scheduling-sps.aspx>

Resource allocation have some work assumption

- Periodic uplink resources are allocated for discovery in a semi-static manner

- Resource allocated for discovery within one period of the allocation are TDM and/or FDM into equal sized time-frequency resource blocks that are called “discovery resource”

- A discovery resource has a duration of not less than 1ms and is used for a single transmission of a given discovery MAC PDU by a UE

- The UE performs random selection only for the first discovery resource in the set of discovery resources that can be used for the repeated transmissions of the MAC PDU. The other discovery resources are deterministically associated with the first discovery resource.

Some key word need to be figure:

scheduled =>Mode 1
UE autonomously selects radio resources =>Mode 2
UE performs random selection

-  In case of Type 1, a UE autonomously selects radio resources from the indicated Type 1 transmission resource pool for discovery signal transmission.
-  In case of Type 2B, only an RRC CONNECTED UE may request resources for transmission of D2D discovery messages from the eNB via RRC. The eNodeB assigns resource via RRC. 

   - As baseline, UE releases the transmission resources the latest when the UE enters RRC_IDLE or when the eNB withdraws the resource by RRC signalling.
   - In case of Type 2B as baseline radio resource are allocated by RRC. Use of activation/deactivation of radio resources using PDCCH is FFS.
-  Receiving UEs monitor both Type 1 and Type 2B discovery resources as authorised.

1. Mode 1: eNodeB or Release-10 relay node schedules the exact resources used by a UE to transmit direct data and direct control information

   FFS: if semi-static resource pool restricting the available resources for data and/or control is needed

2. Mode 2: a UE on its own selects resources from resource pools to transmit direct data and direct control information 

   FFS if the resource pools for data and control are the same

   FFS: if semi-static and/or pre-configured resource pool restricting the available resources for data and/or control is needed