---
layout: post
title:  "路由协议"
categories: study
tag: [vehicle communication,protocol] 
---

* content
{:toc}




# Ad hoc protocol



## Issue

1. **Mobility**

   Dynamic topology

2. **Bandwidth constraint**

   In wireless network, the radio hand is limited, and hence the data rates it can offer are much less  than what a wired network can offer. This requires that the routing protocols use the bandwidth optimally by keeping the overhead as low as possible.

   The limited bandwidth availability also imposes a constraint on routing protocols in maintaining the topological information. Due to the frequent changes in topology, maintaining a  consistent topological information at all the nodes involves more control overhead which, in turn, results in more bandwidth wastage.

   Wired networks may not be suitable for the wireless networking environment.

3. **Error-Prone Shared Broadcast Radio Channel**

   It is required that ad hoc wireless network routing protocols find paths with less congestion.

4. **Hidden and Exposed Terminal Problem**

   The hidden terminal problem refers to the collision of packets at a receiving node due to the simultaneous transmission of those nodes that are not with the direct transmission range of the sender, but are within the transmission range of the receiver. Collision occurs when both nodes transmit packets at the same time without knowing about the transmission of each other.Solution for this problem include medium access collision avoidance( MACA )--CTS-RTS  , medium access collision avoidance for wireless( MACAW) --CTS-RTS-DATA-ACK(also may have hidden problem is one node transfer not clearly), florr acquisition multiple access( FAMA ) and dual busy tone multiple access ( DBTMA ).

   ** Noted that the hidden is because A->C,B->C, A,B don't know each other transmit, so A hidden B or B hidden A. **

   The exposed terminal problem refer to the inability of a  node which is blocked due to transmission by a nearby transmitting node to transmit to another node.(should not interfere with the nearby on-going transmission).SO it  should use different frequency. 

5. **Resource Constrains**

   battery restrict the power source.

   ​


## Classification of routing protocols

#### Based on the Routing Information Update Mechanism

1. Proactive or table-driven routing protocols

2. Reactive or on-demand routing protocols

3. Hybrid routing protocols

#### Based on the Use of Temporal information for Routing

1. Using past temporal information

2. Using future temporal information


#### Based on the Routing Topolgy

1. Flat topology routing protocols

2. Hierarchical topology routing protocols


#### Based on the Utilization of Specific Resources

1. Power-aware routing
2. Geographical information assisted routing

## Table-driven routing protocols
#### Destination Sequenced Distance-Vector Routing Protocol
Bellman-Ford algorithm
maintains a table that contains the shortest distance and the first node on the shortest path to every other node in the network.
add sequence number tags make the existing wired network protocol can be apllied to ad hoc network.
#### Wireless Routing Protocol
inherits the properties of the distributed Bellman-Ford algorithm
use a set of tables to maintain more accurate information: distance table, routing table, link cost table and a message retransmission list.
faster converge and involve fewer table updates
complexity of mantain of mutiple tables
#### Cluster-Head Gateway Swith Routing Protocol
organizes the nodes into clusters
least cluster change (LCC) algotithm
source->cluster head->cluster gateway->cluster head->destination
hierarchical routing enable better bandwidth utilization possible. The main problem is it increase in path length an instability in the system at high mobility when the rate of change of cluster head is high.
#### Source-Tree Adaptive Routing Protocol
Least overhead routing aproach (LORA) as the key concept rather than the optimum routing approach (ORA) that was employed by earlier table-driven routing protocols.
LORA attempts to provide feasible paths that are not guaranteed to be optimal, but involve much less control overhead.(overhead 开销)

## On-Demand routing protocols
#### Dynamic Source Routing Protocol
RouteRequest, RouteReply, exponential backoff algorithm is used to avoid frequent RouteRequest flooding in the network when the destinantion is another disjoint set.

**optimizations**  route cache   piggy-backing 

reactive eliminate the need to periodiacally flood the network with table update messsages

#### Ad Hoc On-Demand Distance-Vector Routing Protocol

the source node and the intermediate nodes store the next-hop information corresponding to each flow for data packet transmission. 

Destination sequence number: indicates the freshness of the route that is accepted by the source.

Connection delay is less.

Intermediate nodes can lead to inconsistent routes i f the source sequence number is very old and the intermediate nodes have a higher but not the latest destination sequence number, thereby having stale entries.

Periodic beaconing leads to unnecessary bandwidth consumption.

#### Temporally Ordered Routing Algorithm

link reversal algorithm and provides loop-free multipath routes to a destination node.

the unique property of limiting the control packets to a small region during the reconfiguration process initiated by a path break.

Destination-oriented directed acyclic graph (DAG).

incurs less control overhead.

But concurrent detection of partitions and subsequent deletion of routes could result in temporary oscillations and transient loops. The local reconfiguration of paths results in non-optimal routes.

#### Location-Aided Routing 

Utilizes the location information

two algorithm: LAR1 and LAR2

#### Associativity Based Routing

selects routes based on the stability of the wireless links. It is a beacon-based, on-demand routing protocol.

higher preference compared to shorter routes results in fewer path break which, in turn, reduces the extent of flooding due to reconfiguration of paths in the network.

#### Signal Stability-Based Adaptive Routing 

uses signal stability as the prime factor for finding stable routes.

find more stable routes when compared to the shortest path route selection protocol such as DSR and AODV.

multiple flooding of RouteRequest packets consumes a significant criterion.Another disadvantages is that the strong links criterion increase the path length, as shorter paths may be ignore for more stable paths.

#### Flow-Oriented Routing Protocol

employs a prediction-based multi-hop-handoff mechanism for supporting time-sensitive traffic in ad hoc wireless network. This protocol has been proposed for IPV6-based ad hoc wireless networks where quality of service(QoS) needs to be provided.

Flow-REQ packets also carriers a flow identification number/sequence number avoiding loops.

Flow-HANDOFF packet

reduce path breaks and their associated ill effects such as reduction in packet delivery, increase in the number of out-of-order packets, and non-optimial paths resulting from local reconfiguration attempts.

<font color="red">Here we know more overhead will take into more stability these two are contradictious.</font>



##HYBRID ROUTING PROTOCOL

#### Core Extraction Distributed Ad Hoc Routing Protocol

Integrates routing and support for QoS. It is based on extracting core nodes(also called as dominator nodes) in the network, which together approximate the minimum dominating set. A dominating set (DS) of a graph is defined as a a set of nodes in the graph such that every node in the graph is either present in the DS or is a neighbor of some node present in the DS.

Performs both routing and QoS path comuptation very efficiently with help of core nodes.

The movement of the core nodes adversely affects the performance of the protocol.Also,the core node update information could cause a significant amount of control overhead.

<font color="red">So choose a right core node is important what about using bus in VANET?</font>

#### Zone Routing Protocol

combine the best feathers of both proactive and reactive routig protocols.

Use a proactive routing scheme within a limited zone in the r-hop neighborhood of every node, and use a reactive routing scheme for nodes beyond this zone.

Tends to produce higher control overhead than the aforementioned schemes.

The decision on the zone radius is significant impact on the performance of the protocol.

#### Zone-Based Hierarchical Link State Routing Protocol

uses the geographical location information of the nodes to form non-overlapping zones.

significantly reduce the storage requirements and the communication overhead created because of mobility. The zone-level topology is robust and resilent to path breaks due to mobiliy of nodes.

Additional overhead incurred in the creation of the zone-level topology. Also path to the destination is sub-optimal.

## Routing Protocols with Efficient Flooding Mechanisims

#### Preferred Link-Based Routing Protocols

 